# Project-3----Group-2
For this project, team members Juliet Hamilton, Triston Cavaness, Katrina Brown and Lesley Conn developed an interactive dashboard to provide data analysis of electric car charging stations nationwide. Data developed mapped the number of stations by state, ranked the states by highest number of stations and provided another interactive pie chart to show, by state, the percentage of stations that offer free charging versus paid.
The U.S. Department of Energy's Alternative Fuels Data Center offers JSON and CSV files used to help analyze the data in PostGreSQL/PgAdmin 4 and build JavaScript visualizations. Initial data returned more than 77,000 unique records that included eight types of alternative fuel stations, including biodiesel, ethanol and hydrogen. Data was narrowed exclusively to electric charging, returning approximately 55,000 unique records.
Team members worked during class and in outside sessions using Slack, Slack huddles and Zoom sessions to develop various coding requirements that were then pushed and pulled through the team's GitHub repository.
Using the refined data, both JSON and SQL, the next step involved developing a Python-powered API Flask to host HTLM/CSS files. The team used a new JavaScript library, datamaps.github.io, to map and display the data by state in clear, digestible format that provided an engaging user experience.
More than three interactive data visualizations were presented and additional data visualizations were developed through PgAdmin. Additionally, to best organize talking points and ensure that all team members participated in the presentation, team members developed a PowerPoint presentation. The presentation provided global and national information on the size of the current charging stations, growth forecasts into 2030, and a chart showing Tesla's growth over the last decade.
Project 3 required team members to draw across a number of skills, including Python, SQL, JavaScript and HTML taught during class. Throughout our project development class sessions, instructor Steven Green and teaching assistant Carlos Fernandez offered additional recommendations and assisted when team members encountered errors in SQL file uploading and Flask.
